well howdy there internet people its Bo
again so tonight I'm going to answer a
question I get asked a lot in my inbox
and in comment sections give book
recommendations kind of problem with
book recommendations is most times when
you give one the reader looks to that
book for knowledge they either trying to
figure out why it was recommended to
them or they pick out details so it can
be discussed and it becomes an exam they
study it rather than absorb it and
that's all fine good but the problem is
that most literature is designed to give
you wisdom not knowledge knowledge is
knowing that Frankenstein wasn't the
monster wisdom is knowing that he was so
in that vein rather than give you 10
books to read I'm gonna give you 10
types of books to read the first of
which is a religious text it's not your
own if you're Christian the Bible
doesn't count read the Quran read the
Vedas do this for a couple of reasons
first it's going to help you understand
other people other cultures second
reason is that well you may notice some
common messaging some common themes and
that gulf between cultures may shrink
read a book about a counterculture
something you had no chance to be a part
of a group of people that existed
outside of society so you can get that
lens of society through their eyes
anything by Hunter s Thompson the valley
of the dolls something like that read a
book about the dark and depraved aspects
of the human condition a book that
attempts to make the monster human
Frankenstein Lolita you read a book like
that and it helps you understand human
monsters when you come across them read
a book about a political ideology a
manifesto Adam Smith Karl Marx and the
Goldman whoever understanding the way
these normally very short little
pamphlets impacted the world and trying
to figure out what it was that spoke to
so many people can help you understand
how people get manipulated
think back to when you were a kid 10 15
years old a book that really spoke to
you at that time
read it again today try to tap into that
childhood wonder trying to figure out
why it spoke to you then see if those
reasons still exist or did society at
large beat that idealistic nature out of
you read a book about other people's
heroes and by other people I don't mean
I don't mean your neighbor I mean your
enemy read a book that is favorable
about somebody you don't like and in
that same token read a book that is
critical of war or one of your heroes
you know here in the US we have this
very romanticized vision of war might do
everybody some good to read a book where
every hero you come across in war is
bleeding to death because that's more
often than not the reality and then the
idea behind reading a book that is
critical of one of your heroes well
we tend to idolize people and when we do
that we overlook all the horrible things
they did and it doesn't matter who your
hero is they were fought they did bad
things I promise it's a good reminder
that people are in fact human read a
book about the old people their stories
about the old gods pagan stories native
stories and when you read it remember
that most of these stories were an oral
tradition until somebody wrote them down
and trying to figure out what they were
really trying to say as they sat around
that campfire and told that story almost
all of them are metaphors of some kind
and those thousand-year-old stories a
lot of the lessons are still pretty
valid
read a story about a dystopian future I
would recommend doing this towards the
end because they well they tend to
incorporate a lot of the themes and the
rest of these recommendations you see a
counterculture most times you see a
political ideology at work you see
heroes from both sides you see all of
this and you see how it plays out it
helps you understand how people fall for
cults of personality how easily
manipulated they are into surrendering
freedom because that's that is the
dystopian future and then the last one
well read a book about a character you
can't relate to in any way shape or form
somebody that is absolutely nothing like
you in a situation that you would never
experience the idea of literature is to
expose you to things that you wouldn't
experience in your life
reading something that is completely out
of step with who you are and outside of
your comfort zone can help you fill in
the gaps a lot of times with what you
know what you think you know and then
always remember that every year there's
a whole bunch of books they get
challenged in the United States to get
removed from libraries banned from
schools whatever
there's lists of them online read those
read those banned books are the best
books anyway it's just a thought you'll
have a good night